SECTION 1 — BRAND, IDENTITY & POSITIONING (FOUNDATION) 
1. What is your full name and how should it appear professionally on the website? Yolanda R.
2. What exact professional title do you want to use? Certified personal trainer, yoga and pilates instructor 
3. What is your mission in one sentence? keep individuals moving and feeling better 
4. What long-term transformation do you help clients achieve? Overall fitness and health as a lifestyle choice
5. What is the core philosophy that guides every decision you make as a coach? How to implement into the client's specific lifestyle and values
 6. If you had to summarize your coaching approach in one line, what would it be? Small changes will lead up to a positive and progressive direction
7. What beliefs about training or health define your approach? Discipline patience and education can take you far in your journey
8. What myths or misconceptions about fitness frustrate you most? 
Train hard all the time
Longer work out better
Cardio and high step amounts are the kay to weight loss
Carbs are the enemy 
9. What problems in the industry do you solve better than others? everyone is diff and need diff approaches 
10. What makes your coaching radically different from typical trainers? Focus technique and small adjustments  body awareness and understanding their body. Focus on length and the shortening of a movement
11. What part of your coaching do clients repeatedly say is special or unique? Understand your own body. body awareness. address an issue right away
 12. Who is your ideal client? Describe age, lifestyle, habits, challenges, goals, and personality. 40’s and up want to be proactive in their lives to make a change but may need direction and guidance  Challenges they need to overcome such as injury illness, disability.  Personality open to change nad new information.  open to possibility in finding a new ideal self
13. What specific problems is your ideal client trying to solve? How to incoportate movement and exercises to fit their abilities and lifestyle  
14. What fears or frustrations does your ideal client have before working with you? Not doing things ideally, embarrassed or intimated to be in the gym. other may judge their workouts
15. What qualities make a client a perfect fit for your coaching style? 
Flexible mind set workouts can be done in different ways and intensity and still have effective results
16. What qualities make someone a poor fit for your coaching style? 
Instant fast change. Want workouts to be like ones see on social media  not willing to work hard for their goals  
17. Which age groups do you want to serve most consistently? Over 40
18. What level of health literacy do your clients typically have? Average  before working with me they may feel have a higher level of but i help them re-educate them
19. Do your clients have disposable income for premium services? Generally yes
20. What types of clients energize you the most? Enjoy and want to learn about their bodies don't look for excuses that are fancy or social media hyped
21. What types drain you? Constantly make excuses  we all are going through something or have some restriction  get through it
22. Describe your brand personality in 5 words. 
23. How do you want clients to feel when they interact with you? Empowered positive self image
24. How do you communicate during sessions? Verbally and demonstrations  direct 
25. Should your website voice be warm, scientific, motivational, nurturing, or authoritative? Warm nurturing supportive empowering scientific 
26. What tone should the AI agent use? Educated supportive
27. Are there any words, phrases, or styles you never want to use? I want the language to be professional  it can have alight tone not too serious but little slang 
 28. Are there any signature phrases you use when coaching? 
29. Describe your athletic background. Ran multiple distances including marathons. Obstacle course racing climbing. Social latin dancing
30. Describe your personal injury experience and what it taught you. I had a foot injury mid-40’s  before this is had very little pain and i was intense with workouts  found enjoyment it them foot injury taught me that i need to slow down and that body needs a break sometimes.  Not only did i learn a lot about foot health i also gained a lot of compassion for the rehab stage and how prevention and rehab work together  moderation is and recovery is key
31. How did this injury shape your coaching philosophy? I emphasize how we may  not be able to prevent but we can do our best incorporating exercises to promote healthy body  i teach to my clients just because it doesn't happen to the person you see at gym hitting it hard doesnt mean it wont happen so manage your intensity
32. What was the turning point that made you decide to specialize in injury prevention? As trainer and instructor i see individuals think hit it hard but dont respect the recovery process and then injuries happen  it feels like many steps backwards
 33. What part of your story will clients relate to most? I have my share of struggle many of which i dont mention unless specifically asked and we have formed a solid foundation in the client-trainer relationship
34. What part of your story establishes authority and expertise? How i instruct details in movement implement tips that give into my own life
35. List all certifications, degrees, trainings, and coursework. 
B.A. in psychology diploma from National personal training institute
Certification in pilates from equinox and fitness formula club
Certification in yoga from yoga loft chicago
36. Which educational areas are you most proud of? College courses in anatomy and physiology this is when i discovered that i loved learning about the human body and how it moves
37. Do you have advanced or specialized training? 
38. Which certifications relate most to injury prevention? Pilates, functional training workshops
39. What do you know that most trainers do not? Range of knowledge and experiences in diff athletic events/training and genres of workout styles  I’m able to execute demonstrate exercise well on the spot 
40. Which image should be the hero/header? 
41. What red shades do you prefer for branding? Red with a touch of orange i want to represent empowerment and energy  
42. What secondary/neutral colors match your brand personality? Black and white
43. Do you want a modern, minimal, luxury, or clinical aesthetic? Luxury and minimal
44. Are there specific websites you admire? 
45. What is your preferred style for photography? 
46. What feelings should your photos convey? Soft yet strong 
47. Are there elements you absolutely want to avoid? Too abstract or that gives a time period  
SECTION 2 — PERSONAL TRAINING & LONGEVITY (PILLAR 1) 
48. Describe your training philosophy in depth. Foundation and technique is key to support and promote growth and progress
49. What does movement quality mean in your system? Being able to move freely without restriction in any/all desired activities or functions
50. What principles guide your programming decisions? Fitness goal, time, and experience of the client
51. How do you define strength for adults 40+? Ability to carry your own body weight and external weight in a manner that suits the needs of client. This also includes joint mobility and strength
52. How do you define mobility? Being able to move from one position to another without pain or stiffness
53. What role does posture play? Its key with out it the individual’s alignment can cause further damage to the body
54. How do you decide when to adjust intensity? Once a movement with or without weight becomes efficient. Intensity is less then 8 start to increase 
55. What does a first assessment session look like? I watch individual do 4 basic exercises  this shows me how they move  what they think is correct  alignment  strength level   we discuss how they feel during the movement patterns  i show them how we can make it better and or get more out of it 
56. What movement screens do you use? Take a look at overall postures  squat, lunge, push up and plank  
57. What do you look for in gait, posture, balance, or breathing patterns? Unstable even between the sides,  gait or movement using compensation to perform a movement
58. What red flags signal injury risk? High pain when doing simple movement  improper allignment
59. How do you identify weak links in the body? Compensate, difference in strength flexibility/mobility 
60. What questions do you ask new clients? What are daily activities  anything they do that causes discomfort or pain  anything restrctive
61. How do you design sustainable programs? Choose exercises that are at their level  what needs to be done to reach their goals. Potential exercise that will help them with their goals and overall fitness
62. What determines weekly training frequency? How much time they can dedicate 
63. What is your approach to warm-ups and cool-downs? Warm up needs to be 10-15 minutes  components are blood flow, dynamic stretches, activation.  Cool down is more static stretches or some mobility  
64. How do you structure strength progressions? Increase weight amount small incroments  challenge by different movements
65. How do you build mobility progressions? Start basic then add from there 
66. How do you incorporate deloads? After a block cycle which is stand 4 wks
67. How do you gauge overtraining? Performance level from current to begining
68. What issues do adults 40+ deal with most? Mobility and aches/ pains from activities
69. How do you address shoulder issues? Check range of motion  where pain tightness occurs 
70. How do you address lower back issues? Check pain threshold  work on activation of core and glutes 
71. How do you address knee pain? Start with activating glutes to see if change or  tightness of quads
72. How do you address tight hips? Mobility work
73. What mistakes lead to injury? Not being mindful of movements and lack of activation
74. What preventative strategies do you use? Prep exercises 
75. Describe a typical session. Warm up with some dynamic stretches and activation exercises  workout itself  end we do stretch 
76. What do you expect from clients during sessions? Stay focus on workouts  communicate what works and doesn’t
77. How do you adjust if a client is in pain? Weight, we try with no weight and check the activation of muscle groups  weakness or tightness in muscles 
78. How do you educate clients? Give information and they give feedback this way they are learning their bodies
79. What do you prioritize when time is limited? Focus on mobility and small muscle groups-injury prevention
80. What should clients expect after 30 days? Feel better and move better  notice ease in moving around 
81. What should clients expect after 90 days? Consistent reduced pain  strong and see body change  energy level 
82. After 6 months? 
83. After 1 year? 
84. What is your 5-year vision for clients? Ability to continue activities  try new activities  don't feel age is big hamper of life 
85. How do you define and track success? Revisit movement patterns 
SECTION 3 — POST-PHYSICAL THERAPY RETURN-TO-FUNCTION (PILLAR 2) 86. What inspired you to bridge PT and full function? I felt there was a need for clients to understand and continue the exercises after pt sessions were complete to maintain and continue to the rehab function process.   clients expressed exercises i use to help them with injury prevention, prep the body, and mobilize the joints were similar to rehab exercises at PT. They said i explained them well and helped them understand more why to continue doing them. Other clients who went to PT mentioned they have trainer and they do these exercises and pt was happy with work that we have done. through experiences that i have had i felt that i was able to connect pt to my training and felt there was a need and clients can really benefited
87. Do you collaborate with PTs? no
88. What mistakes do people make after PT? Not continuing with exercises not being able to understand them to know what and where they should be focusing  need to be more mindful and intentional with exercises
89. What misunderstandings exist about being cleared? That patient is complete and don’t need to contiue exercises but realistically there is always maintenance  
90. Which injuries do you help clients recover from? Shoulder, lower back
91. Which injuries are outside your scope? Major injuries to neck spine
92. Which conditions do you excel with? Shoulder and upper thoracic  alignment and activation/mobility  hip mobility
93. What does not fully functional look like? When client is unable to do movements without pain stops them from doing daily activities
94. What progress markers matter most? When able to move joint body part without high level of pain. Ability to do rehab exercises with lower level of pain. Work through the specific movement with low level of pain
95. What is the first priority after PT ends? Make sure client understand and ability to do the exercises on a consistent basis lowering their pain
96. How do you transition clients safely? Focus on the exercises they did in pt. Slowly work on incorporating movement and/or stretches to slowly test the range of motion  keep pain no higher then 7 before we move forward while exercising other parts of the body  teach how you can add these exercises into an exercise routine 
97. How do you determine intensity? Scale 1-10  dont want to go over 8  once its below 5 then we start to increase intensity by sprinkling exercises that challenges the area 
98. What does progression look like? Pain level goes down  when they don’t feel it when they are just doing daily activities at home
99. How long is the post-PT program? Varies  we always do check ins to see where pain and movement are.. About 1-2 months i consider adding less rehab exercises more to functional or strength base exercises
100. How do you handle flare-ups? Back it down rest and maybe suggest ice but then work through it after a few days
101. How do you rebuild confidence? Slowly add exercises that you know they can execute  maybe sprinkle an exercise that will challenge them but not quite execute to the fullest
102. How often do you check in? Every session we do recap of the wk  usually once a wk
103. What boundaries must be respected?
 104. What if a client experiences pain? Depending the level but rest a couple days and then check in  if its too high pain level make appt with doc if thats desired by clients  but most times if pain level is low little rest and backing it off is enough
105. Do you coordinate with PT/MD? No Communication is between  client
106. What should clients expect after 4 weeks? Move better and are more aware of their body
107. After 8 weeks? Reduced pain and more range of motion
108. After 12 weeks? Further function in strength and range of motion
109. What does full function mean? Pain is eliminated or reduced dramatically  able to go back to normal routine
SECTION 4 — SPORT-SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE (PILLAR 3) 110. Describe your running background. I've ran various distances  3 marathons
111. Describe your rock climbing background. Top rope and lead climb,  bouldering
112. Describe your OCR/Hyrox experience. I've ran men’s health 10 mile ocr qualified for elite waves  done handful of mud ocr races
113. What results have you personally achieved? 
114. What common injuries occur in these sports? Knees and shoulders
115. What qualities matter most in climbing? Body positioning
116. What qualities matter most in Hyrox? 
117. What qualities matter most in OCR? Being able to manage  going from obstacles to running  upper body strength agility cardiovascular 
118. What qualities matter most in running? Consistent training for cardiovascular endurance 
119. What assessments do you use? Strength and conditioning level
120. How do you program for climbers?  achieve the fundamentals technique  strength and mobility 
121. How do you train grip strength? Several exercises that add into work out that is specific 
122. How do you train pulling power? Heavier weight and component of speed
123. How do you support shoulder stability? Always focus on range of motion and prepping the shoulder for the workout
124. How do you structure Hyrox conditioning? 
125. How do you prepare OCR athletes? Upper body strength ability run and jump for lower body
126. How do you structure running programs? Single leg movements balance and strength  core stability strength
127. How do you design a 12-week climbing program? 4 week block working on fundamentals technique strength strategy  
128. How do you structure Hyrox prep? 
129. How do you structure OCR prep? Basic strength cardiovascular prep obstacle specific training
130. How do you structure a 16-week running plan? 4 wk block segments slowly increase distance or time  deload after each segment 
131. What benchmarks do you use? Performance comparison in their strength and conditioning 
132. How do you taper? Reduce load 
133. What mental challenges do athletes face? Want to overtrain too much in small amount of time
134. What equipment do clients need? variable
135. What injuries stop an athlete? Prohibit their performance
136. What expectations must be set? Work within their abilities and skills
SECTION 5 — OPTIONAL BUSINESS MODEL & VIRTUAL COACHING 
137. What online services do you want to offer? Virtual one on one training
138. What tools/apps will you use? Lap top and meeting apps such google meet
139. What is your messaging policy? Avoid messages from 10 pm to 8 am  unless its cancelation
140. What is your check-in schedule? 
141. How do clients submit videos? 
142. What boundaries must be set? 
143. What subscription model do you want? 
144. What long-term business goals do you have?
